# Abstract

**Example1:** *Sound design with the goal of immersion is not new. However, sound design for immersive media experiences (IMEs) utilizing spatial audio can still be considered a relatively new area of practice with less well-defined methods requiring a new and still emerging set of skills and tools.* There is, at present, a lack of formal literature around the challenges introduced by this relatively new content form and the tools used to create it, and how these may differ from audio production for traditional media. This article, through the use of semi-structured interviews and an online questionnaire, looks to explore what audio practitioners view as defining features of IMEs, *the challenges in creating audio content for IMEs and how current practices for traditional stereo productions are being adapted for use within 360 interactive soundfields. It also highlights potential direction for future research and technological development and the importance of practitioner involvement in research and development in ensuring future tools and technologies satisfy the current needs.*

**Example2:** In this practice-based case study, we investigate the subjective aesthetic and affective responses to a shift from 2D stereo-based modelling to 3D object-based Dolby Atmos in an audio installation artwork. Dolby Atmos is an infinite object-based audio format released in 2012 but only recently incorporated into more public-facing formats. Our analysis focuses on the artist Sadia Sadia’s 30-channel audio installation ‘Notes to an Unknown Lover’, based on her book of free verse poetry of the same title, which was rebuilt and reformatted in a Dolby Atmos specified studio. We examine what effect altered spatiality with an infinite number of ‘placements’ has on the psychoacoustic and neuroaesthetic response to the text. The effectiveness of three-dimensional (3D) object-based audio is interrogated against more traditional stereo and two-dimensional (2D) formats regarding the expression and communication of emotion and what effect altered spatiality with an infinite number of placements has on the psychoacoustic and neuroaesthetic response to the text. We provide a unique examination of the consequences of a shift from 2D to wholly encompassing object-based audio in a text-based artist’s audio installation work. These findings may also have promising applications for health and well-being issues.

## Working Text

Immersive audio technologies, such as ambisonics and HRTF (Head-Related Transfer Function), aim to replicate spatial soundscapes, creating immersive auditory experiences. Despite their potential applications in gaming, virtual reality, cinema, and assistive tools for the visually impaired, the adoption of these technologies has faced barriers. These include technical challenges, high implementation costs, limited public awareness and the need for compatible hardware and software.

This practice-based master's thesis will investigate the current state of immersive audio technologies, factors limiting its broader adoption and opportunities to accelerate innovation, particularly in enhancing storytelling and accessibility.

The world that we live in is the world dominated by stereophonic and in some cases, monophonic audio formats in media. Despite technological advances, people continue to practice conservatism in music mediums, attaching technologies like vinyl records and cassette tapes even as newer platforms offer significant innovations. With the historical references of audio technology experimentations, this thesis aims to identify patterns of technological resistance and conservatism in audio technology, with a specific focus on spatial audio technologies and their limited usage in media contexts.

To explore these dynamics, the thesis will use a questionnaire after presenting sound art created using immersive audio technologies. This will help reveal how these technologies are perceived, any barriers or biases to their adoption and the overall acceptance of these immersive audio technologies.



