### Abstract
A set of three studies was designed to investigate the role of touch-produced sounds in the perception of surface texture. Subjects were capable of judging roughness on the basis of sounds alone. Auditory judgments were similar, but not identical to corresponding haptic touch judgments. When both sources of information were available, subjects tended to use the tactile cues. The nature of the auditory stimulus for roughness is considered.

### Introduction
Texture perception at least potentially involves the coordinated action of a number of sensory systems—cutaneous, kinaesthetic, visual, and auditory. Such a multimodal view of texture perception calls for systematic evaluation of the nature of the processing involved and of the relative contributions of the various systems. Can we use each of these sources of information, and equally important, do we?

A recent television commercial provides informal evidence that this may be so. The advertisement begins with a closeup of a young man's face. Half is shaved with one brand of shaving cream, the other half with a competing brand. To show how much closer the shave is with the cream being advertised, a credit card is drawn along the skin of first one and then the other side of the face. The sounds produced make it quite evident which side is smoother. The present set of studies provides more rigorous evidence that people are capable of making such discriminations when cutaneous, kinaesthetic, and visual cues are eliminated. However, judgments of roughness made in the presence of both tactile and auditory cues tend to approximate more closely those made by touch alone than those made by audition alone.